>> Kyle Simpson: Thanks very much
global scope, we've got a red marble in
the bucket and we've got foo
sorted into the global scale.
We continue compiling the code,
we come to line 3 and we say,
hey global scope, I've got an identifier
called var, ever heard of him?
What's the answer?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: Nope,
never heard of them.
But now that you mention it,
I've got a bar.
I sort that red marble
into that red bucket.
Same scope,
we're still in the global scope.
Now we have an identifier called foo,
and we have an identifier called bar.
By the way, this identifier happens to
reference a formal function declaration.
Since functions are kind important
cuz they're their own scope,
lets go ahead a recursively step into that
function and that creates a new bucket,
a blue bucket, and lets go talk about
the marbles that go into the blue bucket.
So now we're in the scope of bar, we're
talking to a different scope manager.
Now we're talking to the scope manager for
the blue bucket.
And we again continue looking for
formal variable declarations.
Hey, scope of bar.
I'm on line 4.
Hey scope of bar, I have a formal
declaration for a variable called foo.
Ever heard of him?
The answer is.
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Kyle Simpson: No, but
now that you mention it, let's put
that blue marble into the blue bucket.
So now there's a foo in the blue bucket.
That is important to note that that foo is
different from the foo we found on line 1,
cuz these are different scopes.
And I'm probably not telling you anything
by the way, that's surprising or
groundbreaking.
This is all intuitive stuff.
It's just more formal and
rigorous than you're used to thinking.
I promise there's a payoff
to that formality and rigor.
It helps us avoid mistakes of
thinking that lead to later bugs.
Just more formal and rigorous.
Okay, so now we have two different foos.
And by the way, there's a term for
having two different variables
of the same name at different levels
of the scope, like we see there.
There's a term for that,
and it's called shadowing.
If, on line 4 and a half, or
even let's say, on line 3 and a half.
If on line three and a half, in between
line 3 and 4, I said console.log foo,
what do you think it would print?
>> Kyle Simpson: On line 3 and
a half, if I said console.log foo,
it's actually going to print undefined.
>> Kyle Simpson: Because
this is a two pass system,
we are handling the variable declarations
long before we ever do the execution.
So, at the time that we register
a foo into the scope of bar,
that's a compile time.
We haven't paid any attention
to the console.log yet.
That's execution.
Later when we go to execute,
we're gonna come to line 3 and a half, and
we're gonna be like,
I'm looking for a blue marble.
Guess which one we're gonna find.
The one that's in our nearest scope.
You see your problem, when you all
just said it's gonna print out bar,
your problem is you're
thinking top down single pass.
>> Kyle Simpson: This happens all
the time, people run into these problems.
When you try to simplify JavaScript
to something it doesn't do,
big surprise you end up
misinterpreting your code.
>> Kyle Simpson: So I am just trying to
help you think a little bit more like
the engine does.
>> Speaker 2: Now if the console.log was
lined 4 to 5, then there would be bars.
>> Kyle Simpson: Then it would be bars.
[CROSSTALK] What's that?
>> Speaker 2: It will be undefined
>> Kyle Simpson: [INAUDIBLE] line 3
and a half.
>> Speaker 2: [CROSSTALK]
>> Kyle Simpson: What has been declared in
that scope.
It hasn't been given a value.
>> Kyle Simpson: Had it not been declared,
Had line 4 not existed,
then we clearly would have printed bar.
We'll come back to that more of
that execution stuff in a moment.
I just want to point out,
understanding how this
processes from a compilation stuff
is important to avoid misconception.
So now we have a blue
marble in that blue bucket,
we have shadowed the one
in the outer scope.
And that means that nowhere within bar,
no on line 3 and a half, not on line 4 and
a half, nowhere inside of bar can we
lexically reference the foo from line 1,
it is impossible.
Once we shadow at compile time,
it's impossible at run time to lexically
access something in an outer skelp,
there's no way to lexically say,
I just want you to go one level of skill.
There's a trick for accessing global
variables which is not lexical at all,
it is the global variables at the same,
there are properties of the global object
AKA window,
that correspond to the global variables.
So technically on line 3 and
a half, you can say, window.foo and
you'd get that quote bar value.
But that's not a lexical thing, that's
just cheating because global variables
are also global object properties.
If we were 18 levels deep in the nesting,
and
you wanted to access something from level
16 two levels up, that is not possible.
If you do shadowing.
So it doesn't mean shadowing is bad.
Sometimes it's exactly what you want.
Sometimes there's a descriptive variable
name for different purposes, and
different scopes, and
it is entirely okay for you to shadow.
Just know that if you do shadow, it means
that you can not access the line above.
>> Kyle Simpson: So we've sorted that
blue marble into the blue bucket for bar.
Notice that we are done
compiling the bar function.
We finish and we recurse back
out to the outer global scope.
And we continue looking for
formal declarations.
Where's the next formal
declaration that we find?
>> Speaker 2: We find it on line 7.
We find a formal declaration for
an identifier called baz.
So we say, hey global scope I have an
identifier called baz, ever heard of him?
And the answer is?
>> Kyle Simpson: No.
>> Speaker 2: No.
Cuz in that scope, we haven't seen a baz,
so we add baz into the green bucket.
I'm sorry, into the red bucket.
We're still in the global scale.
We put a baz,
we put a red marble in there.
Now the global scope has three
identifiers, foo, bar and baz in it.
And we notice that baz happens to point to
a function, which gets its own scope, so
let's step into that function and
process that scope.
Have I lost anybody yet?
It should be fairly intuitive, so
now we are in the scope of baz where we're
talking to the green bucket,
that's gonna hold the contents of baz.
And we go looking for formal declarations.
Where do we find the next
formal declaration?
>> Kyle Simpson: The parameter?
>> Speaker 2: Line 7.
It doesn't have a var keyword there.
But parameters are in effect,
formal variable declarations.
They create, for all intents and purposes,
local variables, not technically but
for our purposes good enough.
So foo is created as if it's a local
variable inside of the scope of baz.
It's like, hey scope of baz, I have this
variable called foo, ever heard of him?
And the answer is?
>> Kyle Simpson: No.
>> Speaker 2: No.
Now that question's really important,
because remember earlier I sent in
strict mode, if we have a parameter,
we have to check to make sure that we
haven't seen that parameter before.
Because if we have, that's an error.
So, if we were in strict mode and
we said hey scope of baz,
I have a parameter called foo and baz is
like well, I already got one called foo.
Then what do we do?
We got to throw an error, right?
So that's why that Q and
A that's going on is so important.
division of responsibility.
In this case, we don't have a foo yet
in the scope of baz, so we make a foo,
we put a marble into the green bucket.
Now, we go through the rest of
the contents of the baz function.
[COUGH] Do we find any
more formal decoration?
>> Speaker 2: Some of you may be
wondering, what's going on with line 9?
Some of you may wonder,
is line 9 a declaration?
Let's think about it from the perspective
of what the JavaScript compiler can
be doing at this moment.
What does it know, and
what does it not know?
Line 9, when it finds a variable called,
bam, it does not see the var key right
there, we can all agree with that, right?
So what does it possibly know?
Could it assume that we meant to
put a var there and we didn't?
Well let's think about
the other possibilities.
It is entirely possible,
that we might find a var bam on
line 9 and a half, we don't know that yet
cuz we're on line 9 still.
It's also possible we might find a var bam
on line 11, we haven't gotten there yet.
It's also internally possible that we
might find a var bam in an entirely
different file, because each file
gets to add to the global scope.
They're all separate programs
that share the global scope, so
the next file load might make a var bam.
So at this moment when
we're processing line 9,
can we say anything at all about bam
other than it's not a formal declaration?
Can we imply or
assume where it is going to eventually be?
And the answer is no.
We don't know anything about line 9 other
than its not a formal declaration, and
therefore we cannot
assume anything about it.
So line 9 is no different than
line 8 from the perspective
of the scope manager and the compiler.
We can all say, well wait a minute,
I see the foo, but I don't see the bam.
And we know the run time is
gonna do different stuff.
But that's all having perspective
that the JavaScript compiler
cannot have at that moment.
At that moment, the only thing you can
do is say, it's not a declaration, so
I'm not going to worry about it.
I'm not gonna sort that
marble into a scope yet.
We'll figure that out later.
>> Speaker 2: Having finished the baz
function, we then continue and say,
is there any more in this program for
us to compile?
Finding that we're at
the end of this program,
we're just gonna assume that maybe there's
some other stuff there that we don't see.
But finding that we're at
the end of the program.
We're now done withe
the compilation stuff.
Of course the code has been generated.
It's ready for it to execute.
But the important part is that
all those scopes are sorted out.
Everybody with me there?
All those marbles.
All those buckets.
They're already sorted.